This global pandemic has thrown the world into a state of uncertainty with so many unknowns.
But there's one thing that we do know.
Through it all, Jehovah has really been taking care of us.
Day after day, brothers around the world tell us that they truly feel that Jehovah and his organization are watching over them.
It makes me think of the Scripture at Isaiah chapter 40 and verse 11.
Like a shepherd, he will care for his flock.
With his arm, he will gather together the lambs, and in his bosom he will carry them.
He will gently lead those nursing their young.
Is that how you feel? Like a lamb in the protective arms of our Heavenly Father?
Well, we as members of the governing body feel exactly the same way.
All of us are getting through this challenging time thanks to the tender and loving care of our Heavenly Father.
As that tender shepherd, Jehovah does more than just take note of our problems.
He looks for ways to help us.
As Psalm 37 5 says,
commit your way to Jehovah, rely on him and he will act in your behalf.
One way that Jehovah acts in our behalf is by motivating his people to help those in need.
In this report, we'd like to share some examples of how our brothers and sisters are doing just that.
In some parts of the world, one of the foremost concerns our brothers have is simply getting enough to eat.
Extremely limited food supplies, lockdowns, widespread unemployment, and other problems have left families with little or no food.
The Coordinators Committee of the governing body has been doing all it can to help provide food and basic medicine to those brothers.
More than 400 disaster relief committees have already been appointed worldwide.
These committees are working tirelessly to ensure that our brothers and sisters have what they need to survive.
That's the case in the country of Angola.
How are the brothers benefiting from the food relief being provided?
Brother Johannes DiYager from the Angola branch has an update for us.
Back in March, a state of emergency was declared here in Angola.
With the lockdown, many of our brothers and sisters could no longer work, making it difficult to feed their families.
As a branch committee, we were extremely concerned about the situation.
We wondered, how are we going to look after all our dear brothers and sisters?
We immediately wrote Coordinators Committee and informed them of the situation.
Here can imagine how we were overjoyed when they replied, providing us the aid so that we could feed our dear brothers.
Well, suddenly we needed to coordinate a huge relief effort.
To accomplish the work, we appointed 37 disaster relief committees.
Luckily, we purchased and distributed 138 tonnes of rice, 138 tonnes of maize mill and 104 tonnes of beans.
Additionally, through World Headquarters, we purchased 313 tonnes of food from Brazil.
The first shipment arrived July 12th.
Our brothers have worked quickly to distribute the food.
Thus far, 34,701 brothers and interested ones have received basic food supplies.
The appreciation for these provisions has been overwhelming.
For example, one widowed sister raising her five grandchildren received food.
She said, Jehovah, seize me.
We realize that this is an ongoing situation, but we are confident that Jehovah will continue to lovingly care for all our brothers in Angola.
What a clear expression of Jehovah's tender care for our brothers in Angola.
Of course, the need for relief isn't limited to Angola.
Right now, with Jehovah's help, relief efforts are ongoing throughout Africa, South America, and many other parts of the world.
In fact, the governing body has thus far approved over $17 million of relief aid to help our dear brothers during this pandemic.
Now, on this topic of food supplies, we'd like to share a reminder.
With ongoing COVID-19 outbreaks occurring, and in some cases reoccurring around the world,
we never know when supply lines will falter in our area, or when we may need to shelter in place for an extended period of time.
So, if possible, in your local situation, it would be wise to have on hand a reserve of non-perishable food items and other basic necessities,
not hoarding food or stockpiling it unnecessarily, but maintaining a reasonable supply as a precaution.
But now, what about our spiritual food? How is Jehovah caring for that need?
Many of us have been attending our congregation meetings by video conference.
Although we miss the personal contact, haven't our online meetings been a blessing?
In many places, meeting attendants has gone up significantly.
Many of our dear inactive brothers and sisters have been attending with us.
It's been wonderful to have them.
And how proud we are of you elderly brothers and sisters.
You've quickly learned how to use the video conferencing tools.
We love seeing you participate at the meetings.
But as we know, many of our brothers and sisters live in areas where internet access is either not available or it's simply too expensive.
How are our brothers in these areas getting their spiritual food?
You may recall from the third governing body update that some branches in Africa were approved to broadcast the special talk
and the memorial over local TV and radio stations.
Well, I'm so happy to tell you that the governing body has also approved to have regular congregation meetings broadcast via TV and radio.
One of the branches benefiting from this arrangement is Mozambique.
Brother Amaro Teixeira will give us an update on the impact that this is having.
In Mozambique, many brothers live in areas where internet and electronic devices are not available.
So we are so happy when the governing body informed all branches in Africa that we could investigate broadcast and congregation meetings of a TV and radio.
As of July 10, arrangements have been made with 87 radios and 1 TV outlet in Mozambique.
This allows more than 51,000 of our brothers and sisters to listen to the meetings each week in 24 different languages.
That is very good for our brothers.
These special programs are in the same time available to an audience of about 23 million people.
Our brothers are so grateful for these arrangements.
When it was announced, some cried tears of joy.
Many brothers share the feelings of one couple who wrote.
Your hard work together with Jehovah's Holy Spirit has moved the mountains to give our brothers in Mozambique their spiritual food at the proper time.
Jehovah's active support and love for all of us overwhelmed us with gratitude and love for him, his son and our spiritual family.
How wonderful.
This provision was recently extended to other branches and now we're broadcasting congregation meetings via TV and radio in 21 countries.
This allows about 1.2 million brothers and sisters to listen to recordings of congregation meetings and makes our spiritual programs available to a potential audience of almost two hundred.
Almost two hundred and eighty million people.
Jehovah is certainly providing his people with needed physical and spiritual food.
But how is he caring for our persecuted brothers?
During this pandemic, many of us may have felt like prisoners in our own homes.
But just think for a moment about those who are actually in prison right now during this pandemic.
As of July 19, at least one hundred and sixteen brothers and sisters worldwide are imprisoned for their faith.
In Russia, an additional 27 are presently under house arrest and 372 are under criminal investigation.
Worldwide, the youngest ones in prison are just nineteen years old and the oldest is 81.
Some of our brothers have been imprisoned or under house arrest for years.
Take for example our three brothers in Eritrea, Paoloz, Isaac and Negede, who have been imprisoned the longest almost twenty-six years.
In Russia, just last week, on July 13, 2020, there was a record number of searches of our brothers' homes, at least one hundred in one day.
In connection with this raid, brothers Dmitri Katerov and Alexander Bolkov were beaten by the authorities.
Counting from the time when the ban started in 2017, this brings the total number of home raids to over one thousand.
Our brothers in prison around the world needed our prayers before COVID-19 and they need them even more now.
At Hebrews 13-3, Paul wrote,
Keep in mind those in prison as though you were imprisoned with them.
Certainly, we feel for our brothers and sisters who are imprisoned for their faith.
How are they bearing up?
How is Jehovah sustaining them through their trials?
Let's get an update from two sisters who were held in detention in Russia.
On June 11, 2019, at around eight in the morning, offices from their investigative committee and the police burst into our home.
The search lasted almost all day.
And then after the search, they took us to the investigative committee, where they detained us and put us in a temporarily holding facility.
The result was a court hearing in Nizipkov.
They imposed restrictive measures on me, meaning they put me in detention.
And all together, I spent almost eight months behind bars.
I spent eight months in a pre-trial detention facility. I spent 245 days behind bars.
For me, the time I spent in pre-trial detention went by very quickly.
Even that number, 245 days, it sounds like a lot, but really, it didn't feel like that many.
Because I was busy replying to letters, also talking to my cellmates.
I prayed to Jehovah a lot during that time, read the Bible, and I did personal study.
Eight months in pre-trial detention, you could really describe as being in isolation, because I missed life association.
Life association with brothers and sisters, when you can talk to them in real life, face to face and even hug them.
In the beginning, it was hard, but then I saw that if you accept the circumstances, it becomes easier to get on with life.
I prayed to Jehovah not to feel sorry for myself, and not to concentrate on how bad things were, being in one room all the time.
I prayed to accept the conditions I found myself in on any given day.
I also realized that it is important to always look for reasons to be grateful.
And every evening, even if it didn't seem as though anything particularly special had happened, I tried to thank Jehovah,
and that also gave me strength, because it turns out that in every day there is something good.
It got to the point where sometimes I didn't even notice the locked door.
Through the bars, I saw the sky and didn't even see the bars.
Or when we went out for exercise, which was just a yard with walls all around, and just a bit of the sky is visible.
I realized that Jehovah gives the right attitude when, for example, I wondered, what is behind those walls?
And I could even imagine that the Alps were out there, that they were corn flowers, my favorite flowers out there, and poppies.
I think Jehovah that I had, for example, the Bible, and that I could read it, and for being able to pray to Jehovah, for the fact that I had been able to do the right thing that day, for the bird that I had seen from the window.
And before the detention, I imagined that if it did happen, it is an assignment from Jehovah for the time being.
The first day I received letters was the anniversary of my baptism.
Twenty-four years had passed since that occasion.
I was feeling somewhat downcast, and I asked Jehovah for a special gift, and at the end of the day, I received that special gift.
It was fifty-nine letters from brothers and sisters, and I realized just what a unique God Jehovah is, and that he tenderly cares for his servants.
It convinced me once again that Jehovah is a caring father.
The first time I received such a large number of letters, fifty-four of them, I sat on the bed, put them on my lap, and didn't know what to do with them.
I gathered my thoughts. Of course, there were tears in my eyes, so I gathered my thoughts and started going through them.
Thanks to the letters, I was also able to do personal study.
I wrote down in two exercise books that thoughts that really strengthened me.
In one letter, it talked about the secret of David's courage, and it said that he concentrated,
not on how big Galaeus was in comparison to him, but on how tiny the giant was in comparison to Jehovah.
That thought really helped me to switch to the right frame of mind and see Jehovah.
And when they escorted me from the courtroom to the vehicle, to the transport vehicle, the brothers and sisters were still there, shouted words of encouragement.
Of course, I didn't expect to see them there, because I didn't know how they would escort us from the courtroom.
Although, you could say I was rather sad, because they left in place the restrictive measures, but when I got into the vehicle, I was overjoyed inside,
because though I could hardly see the brothers, I could hear their voices.
It made me determined to remain faithful to Jehovah, and it helped me to stand up for the truth in the court hearings,
and I felt that I was not alone, because I knew that many are concerned for me and praying for me.
When I was in hard circumstances, I actually became convinced that no matter how serious the difficulties are,
Jehovah always gives enough Holy Spirit to overcome any trial.
I realized that actually there is no need to be afraid of trials that may befall us.
Jehovah is always close to us, and he always supports, strengthens and helps us.
He is very sensitive to our needs, and at times like that, he draws close to us in a unique way.
How encouraging. Prison walls cannot stop Jehovah from tenderly caring for his servants.
I think these building expressions of our sisters will help many of us who are feeling isolated because of the pandemic.
Brothers and sisters, we're all going through a difficult time.
Some of you have lost your jobs, some are concerned about finding enough food for each day, and many of us have lost loved ones in death.
In spite of all these challenges, isn't it clear that Jehovah is helping us to cope both physically and spiritually?
As our shepherd, he is carrying us along in his loving arms.
Whether we're in lockdown, facing food shortages, or even in prison, his tender care will keep us going, and it will get us through to the end.
You can be confident that with Jehovah's help and guidance, we will continue to organize relief efforts wherever they are needed.
But remember, Jehovah may also use you to come to the aid of others.
Pray for his spirit to guide you.
If you see an opportunity to help, take action. Hebrews 13 verse 16 says,
Do not forget to do good and to share what you have with others. For God is well pleased with such sacrifices.
What a privilege we have to be used by Jehovah to provide tender care for one another.
On behalf of the governing body, please accept this virtual hug and know that we love each one of you very much.
From the world headquarters of Jehovah's Witnesses, this is JW Broadcasting.